TIMELINE:

(NOTE: If a human location name is referenced, that's purely for geographic purposes only)

~1.2M BGP: Random interactions in The Asteroid Belt turn out differently, and send an asteroid dozens of kilometers wide towards Earth.
~930k BGP: The asteroid reaches Earth, but disintigrates before reaching the atmosphere due to tidal forces - it was a giant pile of debris, and now it is a vast ring system.
From ~930k BGP to ~11k BGP: THE SAVAGE ERA
	Meteor impacts constantly affect the planet; All of Euarchonta goes extinct.
	The resulting severe winter(s) make for a series of unusually severe ice ages; However, they're not severe enough to be an major 			extinction event. Instead, the more difficult environment forces mammals to evolve towards sapience rather rapidly, or die.
	~930k BGP to ~70k BGP: Brainpower increases all across Mammalia to levels similar to what homo sapiens would be at by this point.
		For unknown evolutionary reasons, Midnicampium Holicithias evolves in this timeframe. Maybe because of rabbits?
	~74k BGP: THE GREAT AWAKENING
		Toba erupts with an intensity of VEI 9. Famines set in around the world, with Africa being particularly badly hit.
		Some unsuspecting mammal consumes psychoactive susbstances as a desperate measure to sate hunger. This mammal becomes the 				first fully sapient mammal on the planet.
		This causes a psychic chain reaction, as the psychic shock of awakening to sapience leads to all land mammals with advanced 				enough brains to eventually experience it. This anomalous psychic chain reaction is now known as the Great Awakening.
	~70k BGP: Lion skeletons at an archaeological site from this timeframe suggest a dramatic and epic series of events during a drought; 	Reconstructions of these events later inspire plays and movies in more modern times. In particular, the genetic evidence suggests 			that a lion overthrew his brother, only to be overthrown by his nephew (with the bones being charred, as if he burned to death).
	~70k BGP to ~11k BGP: Evolution of bipedalism, longer lifespans, opposable appendages, and more. Primitive technology is possible and becomes 	more normal in this time with the taming of fire being at the start of this timeframe (possibly inspired by the aforementioned leonid drama) 	Evolved mammals outcompete and wipe out unevolved mammals.
		~41k BGP: A sudden weakening of the magnetic field at this time causes a spike in the speed of evolution. Innovation proves 		successful to deal with what's happening, so usage of tools derived from such innovation becomes normal.
	~11k BGP: End of the Younger Dryas: By this point, all surviving terrestrial mammal species are fully evolved to sapience. The world of Ayike 	is fully evident now.
		It is worth mentioning that whales are almost certainly sapient as well, but due to being underwater, technology is effectively 		impossible for them in a manner that is anything other than cultural. Consequently, they are irrelevant to the events to come.
			This evolution is independent of the Great Awakening.
~14k BGP: Start of the Green Sahara
~12.5k BGP: Start of the Younger Dryas
	Agriculture is discovered globally.
	Start of the Neolithic Age.
	The Missoula Floods occur. Likely origin of a number of flood myths.
		Every living organism in the southern half of what's now Mowitchu was killed. This local apocalypse is long forgotten by the time of 		the Great Plague
~10k BGP: End of the end of the last glacial maximum
	Legend of arctic foxes migrating to Melrakkia to populate the island for the first time. This legend is recounted in oral traditions of 	Melrakkian culture, making for the oldest known recorded history on the entire planet.
	The Persian Gulf floods rapidly. Likely origin of a number of flood myths.
	Doggerland exists.
~7.5k BGP: Start of the first cities.
	A dry period in the Sahara Desert occurs.
	Start of the Copper Age
~5000 BGP: Start of the Bronze Age
	The Sahara region becomes a desert permanently at this point.
	The Black Sea fills rapidly. Likely origin of a number of flood myths.
~2600 BGP: Start of the Iron Age
~2000 BGP: Dawn of Buddhism
~1400 BGP: Dawn of Christianity
~500 BGP: European countries jointly colonize Egypt during the Crusades. This colony extends down to the Sahel.
	Era of Slave Trading: European countries import African mammals as slaves via the Nile.
	Allegedly, [China] experiences the events of the Kung Fu Panda movies around this time. Widely popular mythology.
~450 BGP: A massive canal connecting the Red Sea and the Nile River is built. This canal enhances the efficiency of transporting slaves via the Red Sea
~400 BGP: Massive drought impacts the Yucatan peninsula.
~250 BGP: Massive slave revolts in Europe force abolishment of slavery. Also marks the start of the Lionheart Dynasty's illustrious history in England.
~200 BGP: Timeframe of the original legends of Robin Hood
2  BGP: Vulpine, Mustelid joint expedition between Old World and New World.
0  AGP: Whole planet loses most of its population to plagues from New World. This event becomes forever known as The Great Plague. Because the Vulpine-Mustelid expedition leads to transport of diseases both ways, blame for the Great Plague falls on those species, ensuring widespread stigmas for centuries to come.
1  AGP: States start to reestablish in Xiongmao.

Era of the Empty World: The New World starts to explore the Old World. 
	From a large, fertile river valley in Canada, a pack of wolves known as the Crookfangs establish a kingdom dominating the river valley. This 	kingdom is known as the Kingdom of Zoohaven.

~21 AGP: Iceland unifies as the Kingdom of Melrakk.
~42 AGP: Massive Colonization efforts begin by various well-organized New World countries.
~50 AGP: Massive earthquakes near the border of Nigig and Cese'eihia.
~63 AGP: The Lionhearts are discovered and abducted to near Zoohaven by pirates.
~80 AGP: The rise of a competent general in Mongolia causes the creation of a notable steppe empire.
~84 AGP: Zoohaven's First War Of Expansion - King Fenris the Great of the Crookfang Dynasty expands the Kingdom's borders to encapsulate the shores of all five Great Lakes

Era of Piracy

~126 AGP: Rebirth of Chirstianity
	The Bible is used as inspiration to rebirth Christianity. Unfortunately, such a strange religion is brutally suppressed in most countries, 		and massive piracy concerns make going to Zoohaven too unsafe to consider.
		Marsupalk gets discovered and starts getting brutally colonized.
			Anxiety over the massive wave of brutal colonization sweeping the planet cause a series of random states in Brazil to unite 			as the Arauki Empire.

Era of Evangelism
	Due to newfound stereotypes, prairie dogs are the primary demographic to spread Christianity.

~150 - 168 AGP: 20 Years War/Holy Wars; Wars between Christianity and Paganism cause continuing tensions between rival religions. These conflicts ultimately lead to some reductions in population. 
	Marsupalk is fully colonized, but ethnic and religious tensions promise problems in the future.
		The steppe empire from before collapses due to a lack of social institutions.
			The Nomadic Council of Kaviko gains independence
			The Tribal Council of Barys gains independence
			The Tribal Council of Kuralaia gains independence
			The Tribal Council of Argale gains independence
			The Tribal Council of Celakia gains independence
		King Silas III the Great of the Crookfang Dynasty leads an enormous naval campaign to rid the north of pirates.
			Nisktaku is taken. Much to Silas' surprise, there's a vast city at the center of the island. Silas declares it the Capital of 			the Kingdom of Zoohaven.
			The entire east is subjugated by naval dominance. Port cities with the Zoohavenish flag get connected by roads. The modern 				borders of Zoohaven finally start emerging.
				The Kingdom is reorganized into ten constituent grand principalities, each of which is comprised of a series 						of duchies, each of which is in turn comprised of a series of counties.

Era of Clashing Beliefs
	190s to 200s: A stageplay writer in Guazabari writes numerous famous plays and becomes world-renowned for the rest of time.
	Expeditions by Inuraku occur during this time.
	The eradication of pirates in the north leads to massive waves of religious migration north to Zoohaven.

~210 AGP: Dynastic Trouble

Era of Global War
	The City of Zootropolis is founded on the coast as a trading port.

~210 - 252 AGP: Great Colonial Rebellion Wave/40 Years War: Triggered when a lack of meaningful heir for the Crookfang Dynasty causes the Lionhearts to revive their dynasty. Dynastic disputes stemming from complicated feudal shenanigans triggers a massive global war. The chaos causes many Old World colonies to use the opportunity to break free from their various New World suzerains. Enormous reductions in population occur from just how destructive this war is. Consequently, people eventually decide to make peace due to war exhaustion. The Era of Enlightenment arises from this tentative peace in Zoohaven.
	Part of the Zoohavenish chaos is that King Lupus the Ambitious colonizes the British Isles, only for King Wergar the Terrible to order the 		abduction of all inhabitants of the British Isles to the Zoohavenish mainland. The overpopulation is the final straw for the kingdom, as the 		Lionhearts rise up in direct reaction to being abducted.
	The Toronese Kingdom gains independence
	The Kingdom of Marsupalk gains independence
		Immediately after Marsupalk gains independence, they start seeking to convince Kallillia that they should be their ally. This never 			goes anywhere due to a perpetual lack of converging interests, but it is nontheless a running gag on the political world stage.			The Kingdom of Vontsira gains independence
	The Kingdom of Baghae gains independence
	The Kingdom of Tindustan gains independence
	The Kingdom of Kolsun gains independence
	The Kingdom of Saseum gains independence
	The Kingdom of Imphisia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Coininia gains independence
	The Lupuri Imperium gains independence
	The Kingdom of Variaadia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Zubria gains independence
	The Kingdom of Farkasio gains independence
	The Kingdom of Fuchsreh gains independence
	The Hameni Kingdom gains independence
	The Empire of Bambotia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Karhalia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Donsuia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Medvedia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Sinhail gains independence
	The Kingdom of Harano gains independence
	The Kingdom of Luvia gains independence
	The Gilahari Kingdom gains independence
	The Kingdom of Aneiu gains independence
	The Kingdom of Zakio gains independence
	The Kingdom of Vuk gains independence
	The Kingdom of Mhasheeia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Elguria gains independence
	The Kingdom of Neeraalia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Ukhombia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Varaiadi gains independence
	The Kingdom of Orsia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Karhuim gains independence
	The Kingdom of Funostan gains independence
	The Okapi Kingdom gains independence
		The Okapi Kingdom struggles with internal troubles for centuries due to bad geography; especially the Inga Rapids preventing reliable 		travel inland from the sea.
	The Kingdom of Maxinjan gains independence
	The Kingdom of Ombukia gains independence
	The Kingdom of Chikopania gains independence
	The Kingdom of Tekula gains independence
	various Dameeri tribes gain independence/anarchy
	various Baboyan tribes gain independence/anarchy
	The 1st Kingdom of Nguruwechin gains independence
	The Miewian Empire gains independence
	~250 AGP: Depopulated British Isles are fully abandoned.
		Melrakk colonizes the Faroe Islands and annexes them.
	The western half of Barys gains independence as the Deshchak Horde. Barys itself reforms as the Barys Horde
Celakia collapses!
	The Okinsgoli Khanate gains independence
	The Dzuni Horde gains independence
	The Barmati Horde gains independence
States start to conquer one another in Xiongmao.
Q'arania undergoes a coup to become more imperialist in South America instead of abroad.
Kiskey conquers the Windward Islands, the Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico.
Guazabari conquers Jamaica and the Bahamas.
The global chaos causes the Kingdom of Inuraku to be overthrown by the 2nd Kingdom of Inuraku, who promptly close the country.
	Various mountain valley kingdoms suffer from revolts and anarchy. Consequently, they get puppeted by larger kingdoms nearby.
		Tewio, Nahkoke, Wagwuk, Nagacil, N'Wia, Tuhwaha, Te'Ah, Wukut, and Vuch all get organized together as the Empire of the Mountains, 		which is ironically a diarchy vassal state ruled on a turn-by-turn basis by Cese'eiha and Xatylweia.
	Qwestan becomes a diarchy ruled on a turn-by-turn basis by Bishei and Xatylweia
	The Kingdom of Epatal suffers a revolution. Consequently, it reforms into the Epatali Empire. It will conquer various areas nearby (including 	all of Central America and most of Mexico), over the course of the next 250 years.
	Various kingdoms throughout the New World suffer internal troubles, typically involving the old monarchy being deposed, only to be replaced 		by a new dynasty.

Era of Enlightenment
	277 AGP: Due to a lack of trust in the new Lionheart Dynasty, dukes and counts in the Grand Principality of Wanen attempt a pyramid scheme. 		When this results in a lapine servant being abducted to Lionheart Castle at Nishtaku, King Leodore II immediately orders an investigation. 		Upon the discovery of the pyramid scheme, the King issues a royal decree abolishing the Grand Principality of Wanen, replacing it with the 		Commonwealth of Triburrow. All consituent duchies are abolished and replaced with "Boroughs." Arrest warrants are issued upon all of the 		nobles involved (including the Prince himself). The servant was able to return to her home. This incident becomes known as the Lapine Pyramid 	Scandal, and it is one of the most important historical events in all of Ayike's history!

~294 AGP: Contentious Civics Breakthrough
	The following kingdoms reform into Republics: 
		Marsupalk
		Sinhail
		Harano
		Mhasheeia
		Neeraalia
		Melrakk
		Umkhombia.
	Funostan reforms into an oligarchy.
	Chikopania decentralizes, thus forming a chiefdom
	The success of the Commonwealth of Triburrow causes a pro-democracy movement to form in the Kingdom of Zoohaven.

Era of the Frontiers of Science
	298 AGP: Massive earthquake destroys Swewio. The damage is severe enough for everywhere east of the Cascade Mountains to declare independence 	as the Kingdom of Mowitchu.
		~305 AGP: A sailor is marooned on a remote tropical island for 5 years, and survives.
		~315 AGP: The sailor's tale proves strong inspiration for the deserted island trope in literature.

~336 AGP: Wars of the First Modern Republics
	Xiongmao Reunification: For the first time in over 300 years, a singular state exists in China. Known as the Xiongmao 					Dynasty, they are one of the Great Powers of the World.
	First Q'arani War of Expansion: Q'arania conquers Panguia.
	The Republic of Marsupalk starts colonizing nearby lands.
	Siberian Situations:
		The Khanate of Chinbir gains independence from the Deshchak Horde
		The Khanate of Siburt gains independence thanks to internal turmoil within the Dzuni Horde.
		The Barmati Horde collapses!
			The Horde of Barbir gains independence
			The Horde of Naseiv gains independence
	Toron-Lupuri War: The Toronese Republic attempts to conquer Corsica and Sardinia. This fails, and a stalemate in the Western Mediterranean 		occurs.
	The Swewio-Mowitchu War: Stalemate due to the Cascade Mountains being a huge geographic barrier. The Snake River is turned red at times from 		all the bloodshed on it due to it being the only logistically possible route through the mountains.
	Miewia colonizes the Cyrenaica region. Due to logistics problems, they cannot advance further along the mediterranean coast.
	Neo-Colonialism: The Kingdom of Zoohaven recolonizes the British Isles. This time, the islands are repopulated by Zoohaven.
	First Karhali War of Expansion: Karhalia conquers all of Rajasthan.
	Tindustani Collapse: The Kingdom of Kukkuria rebels, thereby destabilizing the Kingdom of Tindustan. By the time the Kingdom of Tindustan is 		reorganized internally, the Kingdom of Kukkuria has already fortified its borders.
		The Kingdom of Kukkuria gains independence
	Hameni conquests of Burma and Indochina. Rebrands to the Hameni Empire.
	The Kingdom of Mbalamo gains independence
	The Kingdom of Cachicamu reforms into the Republic of Cachicamu after a bloody revolution.
	The Kingdom of Sotrelo gains independence
	Baghae sets up the colonial government of Harino.
	The 1st Kingdom of Vontsira puppets the Kingdom of Maxinjan
	The Khanate of Lenuska manages to gain independence from Kaviko.
	The Chiefdom of Chikopania resists invasions from Vontsira
	Violent clashes between Nguruwechin and neighbors. Southern Dameeri tribes unite as a coalition.
	Okap starts conquering nearby lands.

Era of Experimentalism
	Dawn of Classical Music - including legendary pieces that will be remembered for all time from Fuchsreh, Lupuru, Coininia, etc...)

~378 AGP: The Great Debate: Tensions between Christianity and Paganism are at hand once again. Ultimately, the resulting discussion leads to an 	enhanced understanding of moral codes and philosophy. Mammalism (an analogue of Humanism) is born.
	A massive eruption and famine causes social unrest and revolts begetting reform in Melrakkia.
	The Republic of Marsupalk annexes Tanzania and New Guinea.
	Baghae starts to use Harino as a penal colony.

Era of Rationality
	410 AGP: Massive earthquakes rock the midwest region; A new lake forms at the epicenter - near Cese'eihia's border with Nigig. Seismic 	effects (including damage) occur as far as 700 miles away!

~420 AGP: Monarchism's Extinction
	423 AGP: Zoohaven Revolution: The Kingdom of Zoohaven undergoes a revolution - the monarchy is abolished, and the Lionheart Dynasty is 		effectively over. The Republic of Zoohaven is established.
		The British Isles gain independence as a series of kingdoms and island-fiefdoms.
	Second Q'arani War of Expansion: Q'arania conquers Kallilia and K'inia.
	Siberian Situations:
		Chinbiri-Siburti War: The border shifts south from the Tavda river to the Tura river.
		The Kingdom of Orsia suffers a revolution, thereby becoming the 2nd Kingdom of Orsia.
		Kaviko reforms into the Kaviko Horde.
		Barbiri Civil War:
			The Khanate of Grushta declares independence
			Barbir is now the Khanate of Barbir.
		Naseiv collapses!
			The Mountain Khanate of Koghai gains independence - and promptly conquers the northwesternmost parts of Okinsgol.
			The Naseiva Khanate is established to the north
	The Kingdom of Zubria expands north into the Northern Baltics.
	The Toronese Kingdom conquers Morocco and Algeria as colonies.
	Crisis of Denmark: A massive storm sometime around this timeframe cuts off a large portion of northern Denmark away from the rest by breaking 	a sandbar in twain! The storm is so catastrophic that disease spreads throughout the region, destabilizing it. The country that ruled Denmark 	(which had once been independent) is conquered by Elguriah as an effort to bring order to a ruined area.
		North of the Limfjord is directly annexes; south as far as Schleswig is managed as a vassal. The Danish islands are annexed.
	Argali-Kurali War: 
		Kuralaia has to cede Aktobe and Mangystau to Argale.
		Argale is forcibly reformed to a kingdom.
		Kuralaia reforms into the Federated Tribes of Kuralaia
	Instability forces Miewia to release Yarbuia as a vassal.
	Massive revolts throughout Lupuru are suppressed, but internal tensions remain.
	Second Karhali War of Expansion: Karhalia expands to the west, reaching as far as the Indus River, and going south to encompass Gujarat. The 		kingdom rebrands itself as the Empire of Karhalia.
		The 1st Republic of Sinhail is annexed.
	Mullapandi-Aneiui War: Mullapandia annexes significant interior areas of Andhra Pradesh.
		The Kingdom of Aneiu starts to degrade societally.
	Violent clashes between Nguruwechin and neighbors. Southern Dameeri tribes expand their coalition northwards.
	The Chiefdom of Chikopania resists invasions from Vontsira.
	Great Baghaen War:
		Kukkuri and Hameni invasion of Baghae; This forces Baghae to fight a two-front war.
		The Kingdom of Siyal gains independence
		The Republic of Gai gains independence
		Hameni seizure of Harino; Colony taken as a Hameni colony now.
			Hameni Colonists are now free to start going south into the western Malay Archipelago
	The Republic of Marsupalk, due to social tensions, has to explore all nearby islands and colonize/conquer them.

Era of the Northern Frontier
	The Republic of Zoohaven expands its frontier northward.
	All around the world, massive fires burn huge swathes of cities, killing many per conflagration
	428 AGP: Great Eclipse of Namohsohke
	457 AGP: The Carrington Event

~462 AGP: Unease is building in the world
	The Kingdom of Inuraku opens to the world
	Third Karhali War of Expansion: Karhalia uses powerful naval force to subdue several republics along the coast onto becoming vassals.
		The 1st Republic of Harano is replaced by the Dominion of Karhali Harano.
		The 1st Republic of Mhasheeia is replaced by the Dominion of Karhali Mhasheeia.
		The 1st Republic of Neeraalia is replaced by the Dominion of Karhali Neeraalia.
	Hameni setup of the colonial governments of Bulukuni, Badhak, P'somset, and Harimauia.
	The Republic of Marsupalk sets up the colonial governments of Graonia, Banguia, and Pekapeka

Era of Industrialization
	One scientist revolutionizes everything to do with explosives and firearms. This Lupuran boar scientist - Alfredo Nobarb - gains a legacy as 		a "merchant of death." His inventions define warfare for a century! Ironically, he decides his vast fortune should be awarded for those that 		advance the world the most in a positive manner. Miraculously, it's these Nobarb Prizes that define his true legacy, not his inventions.
		The 7 Nobarb Prize categories are forever more as follows: Peace, Art, Literature, Physics, Chemistry, Math, and Societal.
	492 AGP: Bunnyburrow sign built
	
496-503 AGP: THE GLOBAL GREAT WAR: Started when the Bambotian Empire attempts to invade the Kingdom of Zakio. The Okapi Kingdom uses this as an 		excuse for war against Bambotia. Consequently, intertwined alliances descend most of the world into war, both internal and external.
	Zootopian Coup: The 2 primary political parties at the time attempt to start a civil war. This is prevented by a military coup, however, 		which directly leads into the establishment of the Zootopian Empire. This empire - with the help of a super-general - then goes on during 		wartime to conquer vast areas in North America.
		497 AGP: The coup occurs
		498 AGP: The 2nd Kingdom of Woapinki is conquered
		499 AGP: The 2nd Kingdom of Nigig is conquered
		500 AGP: The 2nd Kingdom of Makino is conquered
		501 AGP: The 2nd Kingdom of Wapitia is conquered
		502 AGP: The Zootopian Empire uses its armies to intimidate the following kingdoms into becoming Zootopian vassals: Bishei, 				Cese'eihia, Amiski
			The share of power that Cese'eihia had over the Empire of the Mountains is ceded to Xatylweia, who is the sole suzerain now.
			The share of power that Bishei had over Qwestan is ceded to Xatylweia, who is the sole suzerain now.
		503 AGP: The Zootopian Empire uses its navies to attempt to intimidate the various ex-colonial powers of the Caribbean into becoming 			Zootopian vassals. This fails.
			Esibania winds up becoming intimidated into vassalage, however.
		503 AGP: After reforming into republics and a confederation, Xatlyweia, Mowitchu, and Swewio form an anti-Zootopia coalition out of 			fear of imperialism.
			Swewio colonizes the coast of Alaska. This allows the formation of the colonial government of Sheshe.
			After the war - and a series of revolutions - the Republics of Guazabari, Cachicamu, Buia, Wasehat, Chiguira, and Kiskey all 			join the coalition.
		Baquiria undergoes a violent revolution, becoming a republic.
		The United Islands of Kudhari gains independence
		The Consolidated Reefs of Bulhaa gains independence
	European Chaos:
		New Zoohaven Wars of Unification: From the main part of Britain, the largest kingdom unifies the British Isles by conquering South 			England and conquering Ireland.
		Luvian Revolution: The Kingdom of Luvia is abolished and replaced with the Republic of Luvia.
		Vuki Revolution: The Kingdom of Vuk is abloshed and replaced with the Union of Vuk
		Karhuim Revolution: The 1st Kingdom of Karhuim is succeeded by the 2nd Kingdom of Karhuim.
		Fushsrehi-Elguri War: 
			Fushsreh conquers Denmark away from Elguria.
			The Kingdom of Fuchsreh is succeeded by the Federal Republic of Fuchsreh. Fuchsreh demilitarizes.
			The Kingdom of Elguriah is succeeded by the Fascist Order of Elguriah due to excessive war reparations
		Coininian Revolution: The Kingdom of Coininia is abolished and replaced with the Coininian Republic.
			Revolutionary fervor also enables conquests of Switzerland, Belgium, and the Rhineland.
		Great Eastern War: 
			Volga River: Border skirmishes between Orsia and Argale. No results.
			Zubrian Theater:
				Revolts force the kingdom of Koksue to explode!
					The border between Zubria and Koksue moves from the Dnieper river to the Desna river.
					2nd Kingdom of Koksue is formed out of only the eastern-most areas.
					Zubria gains the Domain of West Zaporoz and the Domain of Vyati as Zubri vassals.
					Orsia gains the Realm of Curum as a vassal.
					The 2nd Kingdom has the Realm of East Zaporoz as a vassal.
				Zubrian reforms lead to the birth of the Commonwealth of Zubria
				The border between Zubria and Medvedia moves from the Reka Lovat to the Reka Losmina.
					Zubria splits Olenia off from Medvedia in the treaty, and makes both countries Zubrian vassals.
		Farkasi Revolution: The Kingdom of Farkasio is abolished and replaced with the Federation of Farkasio.
		Toronese Revolution: The Toronese Kingdom is abolished and replaced with the Toronese Republic.
			The Admuian Kingdom gains independence
			The Kingdom of Izemik gains independence
		Revolts finally destroy the Lupuri Imperium after nearly a century of constant revolt.
			The Republic of Lupuru gains independence
			The Republic of Riccio gains independence
			The Federated Fiefs of Brendos gains independence
	South American Chaos: The Q'aranian Empire and the Arauki Empire fund seccesionist rebels in one another's territories.
		The chaos of the continent's 2 largest powers descending into civil wars leads to instability in the rest of the continent:
			The 2nd Kingdom of Pincoy undergoes a revolution, thereby becoming the Pincoy Union.
			The 2nd Kingdom of Aguaria suffers a revolt, thereby reforming into the Republic of Aguaria
			In northern Argentina, a religious cult obsessed with anteaters overthrows a national government. This leads to the formation 			of the Holy Order of Kasogonaga.
		For Q'arania, this results in the loss of all territory south of the Lluta River.
			The 3rd Kingdom of Panguia gains independence
			The 3rd Kingdom of Kallilia gains independence
			The 3rd Kingdom of K'inia gains independence
		For Arauk, this results in massive decentralization, and the spawning of numerous vassals. The following decades are known as the 		Times of Blood in the Llanos area.
	Epatali Instability: A brutal civil war related to seperatists forces the creation of the vassal governments of Mazatl, Tlalcoyoti, Tecuani, 		and Mapachtli.
	Marsupalki Revolution: Republic of Marsupalk replaced by Empire of Marsupalk
		The Empire of Marsupalk has to reconquer colonies as well. Marsupalk fails to reconquer Pekapeka.
			The Stratocracy of Pekapeka gains permanent independence, and starts mass-producing a navy.
	503 AGP: Middle Eastern Collapse: A major Super-caliphate in the Middle East collapses into pieces. The last Caliph may have been 			assassinated by Tekulan spies.
		The Emirate of Provatia gains independence
		The Emirate of Potskhveria gains independence
		The Emirate of Tsav'a'n gain independence
		The Sultanate of Chakaln gain independence
		The Emirate of Algharir gains independence
		The Emirate of Arkalo gains independence
		The Emirate of Qayura gains independence
		The Sultante of Jamalio gains independence
		The Sultante of Pazanu gains independence
	Melrakk colonizes Southern Greenland. This is done so as to prevent Iceland from being surrounded by foreign naval powers.
		Jan Mayen is also colonized as a scientific outpost. Due to general uselessness, there is little to no permanent population here.
	First Miewi-Tekulan War: Secessionists in Tekula rebel - Realm of Zabin gains independence (funded by Miewia). What remains of Tekula becomes 	a theocratic republic.
		The casus belli was that Tekula tried to bribe Yarbuia into being free.
	Inurakun Wars of Aggression: The Kingdom of Inuraku suffers a coup, thus becoming the fascist Inurakun Empire. Inuraku starts conquering the 		Pacific, including the Hameni Empire. Hameni colonies become Inurakun colonies.
		497 AGP: The Kingdom of Saseum is annexed by Inuraku. The Yetu Realm is conquered away from the Xiongmao Dynasty.
			The loss of the Yetu Realm is a justification for the 50 Years War from 497 to 545 - a brutal multi-generational series of 				conflicts between Xiongmao and Inuraku (similar to the Hundred Years War between England and France)
		498 AGP: Rapid colonization of Sakhalin, Kamchatka, and nearby coasts forms the Domain of Inurakun Yegun.
		499 AGP: Various Baboyan tribes get conquered. Due to harsh oppression, a resistance group uniting the tribes forms.
		500-503 AGP: Inuraku colonizes every island in the Pacific Ocean through to Easter Island.
		503 AGP: Inuraku conquers Hameni, and seizes control of all Hameni colonial governments. 
	Indian Chaos:
		Kukkuri Collapse: The Kingdom of Kukkuri dissolves
			The Kingdom of Harnie gains independence
			The Kingdom of Banaia gains independence
		Great Karhali War: Brutal multi-front war, with seccesionist rebels at the coast.
			Coastal theater: Massive amounts of bloodshed.
				The 2nd Republic of Sinhail gains independence.
				The Dominion of Karhali Harano gains independence as the 2nd Republic of Harano.
				The Dominion of Karhali Mhasheeia gains independence as the 2nd Republic of Mhasheeia.
				The Dominion of Karhali Neeraalia gains independence as the 2nd Republic of Neeraalia.
			Tinduastani front: Haryana and Punjab are annexed by Tinduastan.
			Pazanun front: The border is moved from the Indus River to the Sutlej River.
		1st Kingdom of Baghae collapses, is replaced by 2nd Kingdom of Baghae. (Dynastic cycle)
		The Kingdom of Aneiu collapses, is replaced by the Socialist Republic of Aneiu.
		Havain Rebellion: The Kingdom of Varaiadi collapses and is replaced by the Republic of Varaiadi.
			The Republic of Havai gains independence.
		Great Kalavita War: Various neighbors attack the Republic of Kalavita.
			The Republic of Kalavita is destroyed and replaced by the Kingdom of Kalavita. 
			The Republic of Gai gains large amounts of interior land and reforms into a Kingdom.
			The Kingdom of Mullapandia gains large amounts of coast and reforms into a Republic.
			The Kingdom of Pandia gains independence.
			The Kingdom of Kolsun gains small areas of land.
			The Gilahari Kingdom annexes large areas of land, thereby becoming the Gilahari Empire.
	African Chaos:
		Kingdom of Nguruwechin collapses, is replaced by 2nd Kingdom of Nguruwechin. (Dynastic cycle)
		Dameeri Unification: Due to global chaos, the various tribes of Somalia that all identify as Dameeri unite, thereby forming the 		Tribal Coalition of Dameerio.
		Funostani Reforms: Oligarchs of Funostan willingly give in to widespread protests - Oligarchy of Funostan reforms into the 				Confederation of Funostan. The protests were sparked by fears of uncertain leadership against perceived threats from every side.
		Kingdom of Vontsira collapses, is replaced by 2nd Kingdom of Vontsira. (Dynastic cycle)
			Maxinjani Revolts: Puppet government overthrown, Commonwealth of Maxinjan established.
			Ukhombi-Vontsiri War: Naval skirmishes between Ukhombi and Vontsiran ships. Ukhombia lend-leases to Chikopania and Maxinjan.
		Imphisi-Ukhombi War: Major war between 2 powers of South Africa; Kingdom of Imphisia is annexed by the Republic of Ukhombia. Ukhombia 		consequently reforms itself to Obhejania.
		Chikopanian Revolts: Vontsiran-noble-funded rebels attempt to overthrow the Chikopanian government, but fail. Rebel groups 				consequently get genocided for treason. This is acomplished despite constant border clashes with Nguruwechini brutes.
		Bambotian-Okapi War: The Okapi Kingdom fights the Bambotian Empire via trench warfare that streches from the Atlantic Ocean to the 			Obudu Mountains. This destroys both countries thru extreme societal stress around 501 AGP:
			Okapi Revolution: The Okapi Kingdom suffers a failure of continuity of its first dynasty; A second dynasty winds up in charge 			from among the nobles, thus dawning the Okapi Empire.
				Notably, an additional stressor was a huge chunk of the treasury was being spent to build locks in the Inga Rapids. 				The new dynasty finishes this project.
			The Bambotian Empire dissolves into a series of smaller states:
				The Republic of Mantaif gains independence
				The Republic of Tsiveti gains independence
				The Republic of Mungis gains independence
				The Republic of Jegeia gains independence
				The Kingdom of Siniu gains independence
				The Ganden Federation gains independence
		Ombukian Crisis of Succession: Ombukia reforms to a republic after its ruling dynasty finds itself suspiciously without a heir. 			Suspicions abound that the ruling family were assassinated by the Okaps, but no evidence will ever be recovered, and this matter is 			branded a matter of conspiracy theorists.
	Siberian Chaos:
		The Barys Horde has to release the Buku Khanate, the Jetisu Khanate, and the Zhetrech Khaganate as vassals
		Chinbir vs Deshchak: Chinbir conquers the northernmost parts of Deshchak. Deshchak is now the Deshchak Khanate.
		504 AGP: An unknown catastrophic explosion (suspected to have been a large meteor) blows up in northern parts of Lenuska. This 				results in the Cult of Agdi forming, which views the impact zone as a holy site. Lenuska has to quarantine this area off by creating 			a vassal state to prevent further trouble, as the cultists are violent against non-believers.
		Grushtan-Koghaian War: Grushta conquers some foothills and gains significant territory this way
		Dzuni Civil War:
			The Khanate of Scythmat gains independence
			Dzunu is now the Khanate of Dzunu

Era of Rivalry: Primary Timeframe of the Zootopia-Inurakun Rivalry
	501 AGP: First Carrot Days Festival
	504 AGP: The Zootopian Empire establishes a national institute of research hidden beneath Fort Sokanjik. On imperial orders, this research 		insitute involves researchers of all kinds in the same work facility. From this lab, will come countless technological marvels to change the 		future.
	505 AGP: Due to anxiety about being surrounded by powerful countries, Vuk, Luvia, and Brendos create a defense pact with one another - the 		Haemusi Defence Pact
	506 AGP: A mysterious explosion in remote northwestern areas of Kaviko wipes out a vast region of forest.
	507 AGP: The Epatali Empire works to build a canal from Lago Cocibolca to the Pacific Ocean. Simultaneously, work is done to enlarge the San 		Juan River for commercial travel.
	510 AGP: A book named "Tyler A. Swipes and his Electric Rifle." comes out, reimagining the classic tales of Robin Hood, but set in the 			future. Notably, the protagonist is depicted using a gun that shoots electricity. At the time, this is very much sci-fi - for now...
	523 AGP: Marsupalk splits Banguia into North Banguia and South Banguia for administrative efficiency reasons.

538-544 AGP: History's Only Nuclear War
	The Xiongmao Dynasty and the Empire of Marsupalk defeat the Inurakun Empire, with lend-lease from the Zootopian Empire.
		Part of ending the war is dropping the world's first ever atomic bomb on Inuraku's capital, courtesy of Marsupalk.
			This launches the world into a new age where nuclear technology is very important. 
		Republic of Inuraku established over main islands of Japan.
		Domain of Inurakun Yegun liberated as the Coalition of Yegun.
		Q'arania liberates Easter Island as the Island Tribe of Kiore.
		The Island Tribe of Ope'ape'a gains independence.
		The Island Tribe of Tengeru gains independence.
		The Island Tribe of Fanihia gains independence.
		The Saseum Republic gains independence.
		The Empire of Marsupalk gets to set up the colonial governments of Rusan, Bendui, and Tanahia.
		Rebel groups force the creation of the Coalition of Baboya, set up primarily as a loose confederation of the various Baboyan tribes 		scattered across the islands of the Phillipines.
		Xiongmao is the suzerain of Yetu once again.
		The Grand Hameni Republic is liberated. 
			Formerly Hameni colonies become Hameni protectorates due to nervousness over Marsupalki strength.
		Badhaki front: When rebels crop up in Badhak, they request for aid from Marsupalk. However, once the rebellion turns into a 				secession, the situation devolves into a regular war between Badhak, and the newly formed nation of Kucinghut. Much of the jungle is 		destroyed along the border, which remains permanently militarized to this day.
		Pekapeka: Pekapeka chooses to fight alongside Marsupalk and the Xiongmao Dynasty. This is only as a coalition effort. Consequently, 		the Southern Pacific is free to be colonized/annexed by Pekapeka.
	The Commonwealth of Maxinjan gains an independence guarantee from the Kingdom of Obhejania after a failed naval invasion from the 2nd Kingdom 	of Vontsira.
	Elgurian Revenge Fail:
		538 AGP: Elguriah conquers the 2nd Republic of Karhuim.
		539 AGP: Elguriah constantly bombs and embargoes New Zoohaven, Coininia, and Fuchsreh.
			Two refugees, Otto von Gartner of Coininia, and Marie O'Garrai decide to flee Europe due to genuine fear of Elgurian madness. 			They soon fall in love when it turns out they're on the same flight to Onon'Kana.
		540 AGP: Elguriah reconquers Denmark from Fuchsreh due to air superiority, and also conquers the Pomeranian Islands
			Otto in particular starts to vehemently hate foxes due to seeing live footage of Elgurian fox troops taking over and 					pillaging the area where his home once was and killing all non-Elgurians they could find.
		541 AGP: Elguriah attacks into northern Russia.
		542 AGP: Elguriah's forces are annihilated in northern Russia.
		543 AGP: Fuchsreh reconquers Denmark.
		544 AGP: Elguriah collapses due to a lack of legitimacy and due to multiethnic tensions.
			The 3rd Republic of Karhuim gains independence
			Fuchsreh and New Zoohaven militarily occupy different zones of Elguriah.
	Kingdom of Obhejania expands into and settles Namibia. This leads to the Republic of Ombukia securing an independence guarantee from the 		Okapi Empire.
	The Okapi Empire colonizes an area to the south of Lake Tanganyika. This area becomes a new puppet, the Fealty of Impang.
		This is the final push needed for traditionally tribal areas in the interior of southern Africa to consolidate into nations:
			The Kingdom of Papuil is founded.
			The Kingdom of Omuhond is founded.
			The Kingdom of Letsats is founded.
			The Kingdom of Dikgogwan is founded.

Era of Segregation: Is also the era of the Nuclear Cold War - Zootopian Empire is pitted against Marsupalk and other great powers that form a nuclear coalition. Is a time of profound competition and anxiety/paranoia.

545 AGP: Otto and Marie decide to marry, forging a new family name as they do so: The Hopps Family.
546 AGP: Republic of Inuraku becomes isolationist so as to rebuild.
546 AGP: Zootopian Empire spies gain the knowledge of the Atom Bomb construction from Marsupalk. The Cold War begins, as Marsupalk hands plans to other great powers of the world for preparing against Zootopian Empire and its increasingly dangerous rhetoric of wanting to conquer the world under their banner, so that "all mammals can enjoy their place in the world."
545 - 555 AGP: Mr. Big's Grandmama, slowly developing their family's criminal empire (which will become a key player in events to come), founds Little Rodentia. Little Rodentia will become an inspiration for the city's own Redistricting Project later.
549 AGP: The Republic of Elguriah is released after 5 years of occupation. As per international treaty, the Republic of Elguria cannot militarize.
	The Islandic Union of Eya is established. It is a condominium jointly ruled by Fuchsreh and Elguriah.
	The Province of Aland is established. It is a condominium jointly ruled by Elguriah and Karhuim.
550-560 AGP: The Great Yarbuian Highway is built on the North African coast to connect Yarbuia to Miewia by land.
550s-570s AGP: Great Expansion - Most massive construction project in history builds most of the modern city known now, including the Climate Wall and the Underground Dams. Extreme taxes to help pay for the project wind up financially straining the entire city. 
	Marsupials, Monotremes get forcibly moved to Outback Island.
	Various other species are forcibly moved to assigned districts as well.
557 AGP: Eclipse of Namohsohke. 
560-600s AGP: Golden Age of Vigilantism - Due to tax money being siphoned away from ZPD so as to go towards the Great Expansion, ZPD finds itself streched thin. National-level emergency funding is also unavailable due to the Space Race and building a massive nuclear arsenel for the cold war.
	Consequently, a crime wave runs rampant for decades. Of course, a long-running multi-decade crime wave spawns a massive need for justice.
		As a result, much of the latter half of the 6th Century AGP is rife with tales of vigilantes maintaining order. This all continues 		even after the Republic is founded, since the violent change of government ensures that order cannot be immediately reestablished by 			ZPD.
			It is worth noting that even in the present, vigilantism is a known factor of society - especially in Happytown, where 					neighborhood watches are the norm.
561 AGP: The Great Zootopian Eclipse. Setting of a legendary episode in the early days of the Golden Age of Vigilantism.
	In particular, legends have it that a nuclear emergency nearly transpired at this time from the eclipse, which was prevented when an apparent 	Zootopian naval officer denied an order to attack a foreign vessel. Said officer is credited with saving the world from nuclear catastrophe.
560s AGP: Due to the fact that the literal apocalypse nearly occured, families around the world decide to flee from cities to the countryside to be safer.
	562 AGP: Otto and Marie Hopps, having been married for 17 years by this point, make the move out to Bunnyburrow and use their funds to buy a 		large plot of fertile land. Hopps Family Farms is established as a result, with the Hopps Family Home being a large, only partially mapped 		warren on the property.
566 AGP: After years of uncertainty due to nuclear cold war anxiety, Otto and Marie decide to found Clan Hopps as an effort to stand against the increasing darkness on the world. The mission of Clan Hopps is about defying the darkness and staying safe.
568 AGP: Terry Hopps is born.
569 AGP: Bonnie Hopps is born.
573 AGP: Terry's Nighthowlers Incident - Terry naively eats nighthowlers, and winds up going savage, wounding Bonnie.
575 AGP: At the zenith of the Golden Age of Vigilantism, a member of an arms smuggling ring invents the gunpowder TASER, based on a book from over sixty years prior. Over the next twenty years, the Leapersons at their peak of fame will play a key role in making the TASER a world famous invention/product. What starts as a front company becomes a fully legitimate megacorporation that will sell tasers to both speciest bigots ("Fox Away" branding, for example) and to police forces. For now though, it is simply a criminal group's new favorite weapon.
579 AGP: Wilde Times is foreclosed and abandoned

579-587 AGP: Zootopian Collapse and resulting Global Depression

European Instability:
	New Zoohaven Collapse: 
		South England gains autonomy as a vassal state - the Domain of Sasana.
		Ireland becomes independent as the Republic of Banba.
			Banba also has to release the Domain of Luimneach as a vassal.
		The Isle of Man and the Isle of Anglesey become the Realm of Draenoga - a New Zoohavenish vassal.
		Northern Scotland gains independence as the Kingdom of Fortriu.
			The Shetland Islands become a Fortri vassal known as the Island Realm of Hjalt
	Toronia has to create three vassals out of its own territory: Garve, Cabalo, and Pityusae.
	As a bid to improve economic vitality and political stability, the Republic of Lupuru conquers Tunisia and western Libya.
	Melrakkia has to release the Isle Realm of Kindur as a vassal state.
	Coinini-Ricci War: 
		Rebellions spring up in Coininia. Investigations reveal Ricci funding for the rebels, which leads to Coininia declaring war.
			More rebels are funded in an attempt to collapse Coininian logistics and trap their armies east of the Alps.
			Unfortunately for the Republic of Riccio, the Coininian Armies are able to live off the land sufficiently well enough to 			storm the capital of the Republic. The subsequent treaties dissolve the Republic of Riccio, replacing it with five small rump 			states, while Coininia itself has to release four vassals.
				The Kingdom of Aprum gains independence
				The Recnan Federation gains independence
				The City State of Altus gains independence
				The Republic of South Riccio gains independence
				The North Ricci Oligarchial Union gains independence
				Coininia releases the Realm of Gabhare, the Realm of Caolas, the Realm of Dubroku, and the Realm of Svizra as 				vassals.
	Mercantile revolts force Brendos to release the Merchant Dominions of Monachus as a vassal state.
	Rebels funded by the Haemusi Defence Pact force the European parts of the Sultanate of Chakaln to shatter!
		The Free Cities of Pterip gains independence.
			The Heptanian Islands League is a Pteripi vassal state.
			The Military Tribunal of Morea is a Pteripi vassal state.
		The Kaptaran Island League gains independence.
		The Parliamentary Kingdom of Martinoi gains independence.
		Pterip, Kaptara, and Martinoi join the Haemusi Defence Pact.
		The Sultanate of Chakaln has to release the Emirate of Rumel as a vassal.
	Great Central European War: 
		Zubria and Fuchsreh are overwhelmed by a highly militarized Farkasi surprise attack.
		Fuchsreh responds by counterattacking in Bohemia. Zubria pushes Farkasia back to the Carpathian Mountains.
		Rebellions in Bohemia, Wallachia, Moonsund, and Moldavia force peace and new vassal states.
			The Domain of Zimbru and the Domain of Poder are released by Zubria as Zubri vassal states.
		Randomly, two independent nations that emerge in Wallachia - Craiavo, and Brunurs decide to join the Haemusi Defence Pact as Client 		States of the Pact.
		Fuchsreh annexes Austria and Northern Croatia.
	Elguri Revolts:
		Islands in the Baltic Sea rebel, leading to the formation of the Rebello Merchant Republic, an Elguri vassal.
		Leftover fascist sentiment that survived the Elguri War of Hate leads to revolts along the coast; a new nation primarily composed of 		nationalistic pirates is born. Named Varang, this nation of raiders is an enormous problem for the Gaditanus and Frerinn Oceans. They 		are considered terrorists by the rest of the world.
Middle Eastern Bloodshed:
	Island rebellions forces Algharir to create the Sheikdom of Alghazal as a puppet state, but intimidation from the Sultanate of Jamalio force 	Algharir to be a vassal state to them in turn.
	The Sultanate of Jamalio has to release the Sheikdom of Dilmun as a puppet state.
	The Sultanate of Jamalio loses a war to the Sultanate of Pazanu, who gains the Satrap of Sawad as a vassal.
	The Sultanate of Pazanu gains territory in the north against the Emirate of Arkalo, who is broken into 2 smaller Pazani 				vassals - the Satrap of Kaftar, and the Satrap of Shghalu
	War exhaustion revolts force the Sultanate of Pazanu to release the Satrap of Khaghtik, the Satrap of Jarun, the Satrap of Pamisos, 			and the Satrap of Urartu as vassals.
	Due to having so many vassals, Pazanu rebrands itself the Caliphate of Pazanu, complete with the head of state's title being 				"Shahanshah, Caliph of Islam"
Izemik suppresses a rebellion but it is widespread enough to inspire reforms lest a revolution break out. This turns Izemik into the Republic of Izemik, a constitutional monarchy. Investigations reveal that Admuia may have something to do with the situation.
Xiongmao Reforms: Due to external economic factors and secular issues, the Xiongmao Dynasty does a partial collapse; Multiple states are released throughout the region - some are vassals, but Yingyang, Tighe and Ma get to be independent kingdoms.
	Ma and Lingyang even get to have vassals of their own!
	Ma renames itself to the Khanate of Aduu
	Lingyang renames itself to the Serene Theocracy of Gcangzan. This country selects a llama of all mammals as a holy head of state, the Dalai 		Llama. State religion becomes Buddhism - a newly revived religion that emerged from underneath Confucianism.
		Tighe releases a vassal of their own called Shugtang
Vontsiran Influence Rises:
	Kingdom of Mbalamo suffers internal issues. Stabilizes as Duchy of Mbalamo w/ assistance from Vontsira, becoming a vassal.
	Kingdom of Sotrelo suffers internal issues. Stabilizes as Municipality of Sotrelo w/ assistance from Vontsira, becoming a vassal.
	Vontsira invades nearby random colonies. Area organized as Dominion of Manav, a Vontsiran puppet state.
Great Pindorama War:
	Despite economic issues, the Arauki Empire restabilizes itself, with reduced local autonomy in exchange for promises of economic prosperity. 		Every single vassal changes in status to being autonomous areas. However, it isn't a flawless series of reforms; Small rebellions are a 		constant fact of life due to the struggles of maintaining a massive jungle empire.
	In 586 AGP, the Republic of Cachicamu suddenly suffers an authoritarian coup.
		Cachicamu is expelled from the alliance against the Zootopian Empire.
		Cachicamu conquers interior territories in the Orinoco River Watershed away from the Arauki Empire
			Cachicamu creates Upper Cachicamu as a vassal governing inland areas, while renaming itself to Lower Cachicamu.
	Aguaria also attacks the still organizing Arauki Empire, along with the Holy Order of Kasogonaga (which is struggling with a massive revolt 		in the north due to religious intolerance)
		The Duchy of Tatu and the Duchy of Guaru remain as Arauki Vassals.
		The Realm of Yaguar and the Realm of Entre Rios are released as Aguari vassals.
		Peace is made with the revolt as they become the Heretical Realm of Tague - a Kasogonag vassal
	Back-and-forth slugfest between Panguia and Kallillia:
		The Farmers' Republic of Picunche is formed as a Panguian vassal.
		The Agrarian Realm of Trapial is formed as a Kallilli vassal.
	Back-and-forth slugfest between Kasogonag and Pincoy:
		The Heretical Realm of Dillaby and the Heretical Realm of Luan are released as Kasogonag vassals.
		Pincoy has to release the Domain of North Pincoy as a vassal of Central Pincoy.
	Back-and-forth slugfest between Kallillia and K'inia:
		The Grand Island of Chimai and the Shattered Realm of Achen are released as Kallillian vassals.
	Back-and-forth slugfest between K'inia and Pincoy:
		Pincoy has to release the Domain of South Pincoy as a vassal of Central Pincoy.
		K'inia has to release the Windswept Ports of Xativa as K'ini vassal states.
	After releasing vassals, Pincoy terms itself Central Pincoy.
Republic of Inuraku reforms into the Inurakun Technocracy.
The 2nd Kingdom of Orsia, facing internal tensions, uses an external war to stabilize itself. This leads to the conquest of Qayura and Potskhveria.
The 3rd Kingdom of Karhuim succesfully conquers Sakhalin.
	This is the last straw that urges various random tribes of northeastern Russia to unite into the Confederation of Arctosin.
		Some towns join the Kingdom of Argale.
		The northernmost expanses are explored and settled, allowing Arctosin to reach the Arctic Ocean
Kiwa Ocean Madness:
	Economic problems lead to the Island Tribe of Kiore, The Island Tribe of Ope'ape'a, The Island Tribe of Tengeru, and The Island Tribe of 	Fanihia to all team up to create the Kiwa Ocean Economic League (an economic alliance)
	Economic problems result in internal turmoil in Marsupalk. Due to Pekapekan funding, the rebels prove constantly problematic, but are 		eventually defeated by Marsupalk. Hameni guarantee of Pekapekan independence.
		Pekapeka receives an enormous amount of funding by selling it's south pacific possessions outside of the main islands to the Kiwa 		League as a new fifth member: The Island Tribe of Vitilevu.
		Marsupalk does have to release The March of Lagunta as a militarized vassal state, along with the Musical Realm of Semai (which is a 		normal vassal)
	Hameni has to reorganize its vassals. This creates the Hameni Realm of Cham, and the Hameni Realm of Laba.
Siberia Situations:
	Barys has to give independence to its vassal states
	Chinbir has to release the Khaganate of Zaursi as a vassal
	After massive rebellions in the north, Kaviko has no choice but to give the Khanate of Evenghir independence.
	Koghai has to release the Khaganate of Nusin as a vassal
	Siburt has to release the Perguli Khaganate as a vassal
	Grushti Civil War: The Northwest Grushti Khanate gains independence
African Bloodshed:
	The War of the Grand Reunification: Siniu and Gande use the economic chaos to team up to rebuild the Bamboti Empire.
		Mantaif, Tsiveti, Mungis, and Jegeia all lose the vast majority of their land and become vassals of the new 2nd Bamboti Empire.
		Aware of history, the 2nd Bamboti Empire creates the Demilitarized Buffer State of Fombawa, a nation between Bamboti and Okap that 		would serve as a buffer state whose independence was guaranteed by both empires.
	Okapi Riots: The Okapi Empire faces large-scale riots, and has to reform into the United States of Okap to survive.
	Second Miewi-Tekulan War: 
		Miewia has to suppress rebellions in its heartland at the Nile River Delta.
			Tekula capitalizes on that by conquering southern regions
				Tekulan overextension leads to the creation of the Fealty of Elailou
				Massively increased risk of a future Tekulan-Zabini war
	Omuhondi-Letsatsi War: Omuhondi conquers half of Letsats, but suffers internal revolts due to the war not being a popular decision.
		Omuhondi Civil War: The Kingdom of Ingonyam gains independence
		Letsats becomes an Omuhondi puppet.
	Letsatsi-Papuili War: The Kingdom of Letsats loses central Zimbabwe. This area becomes controlled by the Kingdom of Papuili as the Domain of 		Imbwei.
		Overextension causes Papuili to disintigrate
			With permission from the Okapi, Impang is able to gain more land.
			The Warrior-Clans of East Itenge gains independence
			The Alluvial Kingdom of Lyonlu gains independence
			The Tribal Kingdom of Balovale gains independence
			The Tribal Kingdom of Kazem gains independence
			The Tribal Kingdom of Kasombe gains independence
			The Tribal League of Zambotse gains independence
			The Secretive Kingdom of Nyauavi gains independence
			The Rump State of Papuil gains independence
	Violent clashes between Nguruwechin and neighbors
		Dameerio starts to become more centralized as a unique civilization against Nguruwechin.
		Funostan somehow conquers large amounts of Nguruwechin!
		Vontsiran Influence on the rise: Some naval invasions lead to securing Zanzibar as the Ungujan March.
	Obhejania, due to economic issues, has to release Namibia as a vassal; Henceforth the Realm of the Gemsboks is formed.
	Chikopania, concerned about Vontsiran expansion and Nguruwechini aggresion, fully militarizes.
	Ingonyami-Omuhondi War: Ingonyam somehow manages to conquer significant amounts of Omuhondi, breaking the northern part off into a vassal 	called the Domain of West Itenge
Great Indian Wars:
	Varaiadi Civil War: The Oligarchy of Hagam gains independence.
	The Pan-Bharati War: 
		Aneiu Front/Crusade: Gilahari marches down upon Aneiu and breaks it up
			Part of the war is Pandia saves Aneiu from complete destruction, as an opportunity to gain land deep into the interior when 				Gilahari was distracted.
				The Domain of Chigari is created as a colony of Pandia
			Land swappage happens to match natural river borders.
			The Communal Union of Raichur gains independence
			The Commune of South Aneiu is released as a vassal of the Socialist Republic of Aneiu.
		Sinhaili Front: The 2nd Republic of Sinhail collapses
			Gilahari gains a small coastline
			Karhalia gains two small coastlines
			Karhalia gains the Principality of Larike as a vassal
			Karhalia gains the Third Republic of Sinhail as a vassal
		Kolsuni Theatre:
			The Kingdom of Kolsuni shatters! Two main nations emerge from this, along with vassal states:
				The Communes of Satpura (funded by Aneiu support)
					The Polities of Ayodhya is a new Satpuran vassal
				The Despotic Kingdom of Delkhand
					The Realm of Madhya is a new Delkhandi vassal
					The Realm of Malwa is a new Delkhandi vassal
		Tinduastani Anarchy:
			Lower Tinduastan shatters into three pieces!
				The Theocratic Republic of Tinduastan is established
				The Doab of Saryurai is established as a Tinduastani vassal
				The Doab of Yamunga is established as a Tinduastani vassal
			Upper Tinduastan descends into anarchy! The anarchy spreads into the northeast corner of Pazanu as well!
				Karhalia annexes Haryana
				The rest of the anarchial area is split between six different vassal states.
					Pazanu gets the Satrap of Soani, the Satrap of Rachna, and the Satrap of Chajech as vassals
					Karhalia gains the Realm of Nevl, the Realm of Ganjha, and the Realm of Mavart as vassals 	 
	Great Gai War:
		Mullapandi Front:
			Padhra gains independence
			Gai annexes some coast in the north.
		Banai/Siyali Front: Banaia and Siyal unite to form the Federal Republic of Banyal. It then obliterates Gai's power.
	Kalavitan Collapse:
		The Territory of Karanya is released as a Pandi vassal state
		The Rump State of Kalavita is what's left of Kalavita after the collapse
		The Territory of Dakshina is released as a Gai vassal state
		The Territory of Rakhos is released as a Banyali vassal state
	Baghaean Revolution: the 2nd Kingdom has to reform into the United Jagirs of Baghae
	Southern Harnie Revolts: Harnie has to release a vassal state - the Jagir of Sarhut
579 AGP: Wilde Times closing down causes riots across Zootopia and its colonies due to its popularity as a symbol of freedom. Accusations of discrimination by the Imperial government against foxes abound.
580 AGP: The Zootopian Collapse begins - armed revolts become normal, and the economy rapidly goes to shit.
581 AGP: Scheduled demolition of Wilde Times is forgotten due to the War.
581 AGP: Vassals in North America are freed. The alliance declares war, actively aiding the rebels. This war is now spread from sea to sea, and from the southern Carribean to the coldest wastes of Canada.
	Bishei regains its share of power over Qwestan.
	Cese'eihia regains its share of power over the Empire of the Mountains.
584 AGP: Seccesionist rebels succeed, thereby liberating the following countries: 
	Republic of Woapinki
	Republic of South Nigig
	Commonwealth of North Nigig
	Republic of Wapitia
	Confederation of Makino
	Hakin Convenant of the Seven
585 AGP: Fringe areas of the Zootopian homeland are conquered, such as Gakiiwe and Gichigami.
	War Exhaustion is particularly rough on Amiski, Xatlyweia, Swewio, Guazabari, Kiskey, and Esibania.
		Amiski breaks into the Republic of East Amiski and the Kingdom of West Amiski.
		The Isles of Cuchiyaga is released as an East Amiski puppet.
		The Condominium of Central Amiski is released. It is a vassal of both East and West Amiski.
		The Swamp Realm of Hacha is released as a West Amiski puppet.
		The Autonomous Domain of Chula is released as an Esibani vassal.
		Guazabari releases the Sublime Isles of Anu and the Grand Island of Xaymaca as Guazabari vassals.
		Kiskey releases the Grand Island of Boriken, and the Serene Islands of Buyiri as Kiskeyi vassals.
		Kiskey gives independence to the Insular Federation of Aon
		The Isles of Gooch, the Grand Isle of Kwakl, and the Isles of Tlag are released as Swewi vassals.
		Xatylweia breaks in half, but the two halves swear fealty to one another. These halves are the Republic of Outer Xatylweia, and the 		Republic of Inner Xatylweia.
			Xatylweia's share of power over Qwestan is given to Outer Xatylweia.
			Xatylweia's share of power over the Emprie of the Mountains is split between Outer and Inner Xatylweia.
				This is officially the weirdest, most complicated political system ever.
		Ponivo is released as a vassal of Outer Xatylweia.
	The Wabigoni League is formed as a vassal of the Republic of Wapitia.
586 AGP: By this point, a massive naval blockade from the Hudson River to Newfoundland. It takes this long to establish due to there being over six thousand miles of coastline to blockade.
587 AGP: After 7 years of war trying to bring down a highly militarized Zootopian Empire, the rebels finally succeed in conquering the Zootopian Heartland. Then, the Republic of Zoohaven is reestablished as the Republic of Zootopia (with government changes).
	This really only happens because the capital (at Anticosti Island) gets starved out by the blockade, and because Lower Triburrow (basically 	the areas near the St. Lawrence River) gets conquered in the Battle of Onon'Kana.
		A rabbit soldier named Stu encounters Bonnie Hopps. Stu was assigned to the military occupation, not wanting to be on the frontlines 		where all the bloodshed was at. It's instant love at first sight!
Treaty of Namohsohke: The Republic of Zoohaven is to be restored as the Republic of Zootopia after 3 years of military 	occupation. The four westernmost provinces are split off into a vassal state known as the Zootopian Realm of Makwa. All firearms and explosives are banned from civilian paws by the treaty. This ban is initially enforced by the aforementioned occupation. The Republic is not allowed to have more than 100k troops. No war reparations, as it is not possible for a rump state devastated by seven years of war to pay them. All Zootopian nuclear warheads are to be dismantled by the troops during the occupation.
	End-of-Nukes Treaty: With no major threats on the world stage, every power in the world dismantles their nukes. Nuclear weapons technology is 	left in the past for good with a global ban.

Era of Strained Equality:
588 AGP: It is revealed that the Zootopian naval officer that saved the world back in 561 AGP was actually a vigilante impersonating the role of a naval officer - this was somehow possible due to gut instincts about the eclipse at the time potentially messing with nuclear detection technology.
589 AGP: The Colony of Sheshe is released as the Republic of Sheshe.
590 AGP: Nicholas Piberius Wilde is born - an only child.
	As planned, the Republic of Zootopia is formally created. This marks the end of the military occupation.
		Not all soldiers go away from the area though. Stu in particular marries Bonnie at this point, ensuring the succession of Clan Hopps.
591 AGP: The Inurakun Technocracy reopens to the world, surprisingly it is a pacifist, technocratic society
	The Inurakun Technocracy experiences explosive economic growth due to popularity of electronics
592 AGP: During an annular solar eclipse, John Wilde suffers a terrible incident, thereby falling into a coma.
594 AGP: A tech start-up forms called Vent. It specializes in development and selling of video games.
595 AGP: The company responsible for making tazers upgrades to air-powered tazer technology as per a government contract. These tazers are the ones that will be broadly sold everywhere, including to police forces such as ZPD.
597 AGP: Judith Laverne Hopps is born - one among many within Clan Hopps - but with 
598 AGP: The Muzzle Incident - Nick Wilde is muzzled by Troop 914 of the Junior Ranger Scouts. After encouragement from his mom, Nick will go on to found a rival club at school labelled "Pack -914". This spawns a multi-year rivalry between the two packs.
599 AGP: After a four year campaign of busting criminals and vigilantes alike using tazers and traq darts, ZPD officially declares the end of the Golden Age of Vigilantism after around fourty years of chaos.
601 AGP: John Wilde awakens from coma, but does not recognize Nick Wilde due to amnesia.
601 AGP: Vent creates a platform named Speed. It is marketed as a fast, easy way for anybody to share video games they make - and even make money that way! Over the next twenty some odd years, Speed turns out to be absurdly lucrative for Vent, with incredibly good PR as well.
602 AGP: Sign near bunnyburrow gets painted by Coininian immigrants.
	Judy learns from the Coininians that rabbits can be strong. This, combined with conversations with the local Sheriff and with her 	grandmother, inspires Judy to want to be a cop, but this doesn't become fully apparent for another 4 years.
602 AGP: Suspicions from John Wilde force Nick to start hustling full-time. There are also aggravating financial circumstances in play from a local recession @ Happytown that is known as the Crash of 02, thereby transforming the district into a massive series of ghettos/slums. The economic turmoil also allows Troop 914 to intercept all donations allowing Nick's Pack -914 to exist. This kills Nick's club entirely, thereby leaving him with nothing but shattered hopes and dreams. Nick fully completes his descent into nihilistic hustling, allying with Finnick and Flash as the last remnant of Pack -914.
606 AGP: Judy Hopps is clawed by Gideon Grey. This moment fully solidifies Judy's resolve to become the first cop, as a consequence of childhood innocence being destroyed.
608-609 AGP: Large eruptions at Melrakkia disrupt air travel for European countries.
611 AGP: A massive fireball from an exploding asteroid occurs over parts of Siberia
613 AGP: Due to random shifts in climactic factors that get hyped up in the media as mammal-made, far northern areas start to see possiblities emerge for development. The Canadian Far North starts to slowly be colonized by random vagabonds wandering from nations down south of the tundras. By 672 AGP, these lands will consolidate into two new republics.
613 AGP: First gravitational wave observation - two black holes colliding were detected from the other side of the universe!
615 AGP: An interstellar visitor is detected hurtling through the solar system - the first of its kind.
617 AGP: Skunk-butt-rug Incident - Nick nearly dies!
02/04/622 AGP: Bunnyburrow Eclipse
Late 622 AGP: HOWLERGATE.
	In the wake of Howlergate, Hero of Zootopia Judy Hopps recruits her uncle Terry to lead a support group for victims of Nighthowler Poisoning.
	Massive political unrest in the city due to the second mayor in three months being arrested.
	Hero of Zootopia Nick Wilde is immediately accepted into ZPA posthaste due to being probably the single most important fox the world has seen 	in over 800 years (if you believe some of the more extreme talk)! There are those that know of him that believe he and Judy are destined to 	be at least as legendary as Robin Hood and the Merry Mammals still are. In short, once-in-a-millenium mammals that could directly rewrite the 	course of global civilization directly through their own hard work.
Early 623 AGP: Mayor Baribal is appointed by the Federal Government as an emergency measure to help restore stability in the City of Zootopia.
Mid 623 AGP: Season 1 of ZPD Chronicles starts